The glossary of terms for the [[Creation Kit]] and modding.

=A=
====Activation====
Activation is the interaction between two objects in the Creation Engine.
For example, when the player opens a door, this is an ''activation'' event between the player object and the [[Door]] object in question.
Many object types react to an activation with some default behavior.
[[Door]]s will open or shut, [[Container]]s display their contents, and [[NPC]]s will converse.
[[OnActivate - ObjectReference|Activation Events]] are script-accessible as well, allowing content creators to implement advanced interactions.

====Archive====
[[Archive File]]s are compressed <code>.bsa</code> files used by Creation Engine to store certain types of data, such as 3D models, sound, meshes, and textures, efficiently.
The [[Creation Kit]] allows users to create these archives by hand or automatically when uploading mods to the Steam Workshop.
See also: [[File Menu#Create Archive|File Menu > Create Archive]]

====Artifact====
In computer graphics, an artifact is a visual glitch introduced by some technical process.
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compression_artifact Non-game specific examples on wikipedia]

=B=
====[[Base Object]]====
The term for any [[Object]] listed in the [[Object Window]].
[[Object]]s can have any number of [[Reference]]s placed into the game world.

For example, the [[Base Object]] [[Actor]] "Alvor" has a single [[Reference]] with the ''EditorID'' of "AlvorRef" that is in the RiverwoodAlvorsHouse [[Cell]].
The [[Base Object]] [[Kit Piece]] "NorRmSmMid01" has many [[Reference]]s, found throughout most Nordic ruins.

=C=
====Cleared Location====
A [[Location]] can be cleared.
By default, a [[Location]] is cleared when any/all reference(s) with the "Boss" [[Glossary#LocRefType|Location Reference Type]] is killed.
A [[Location]] can also be cleared [[SetCleared - Location|via script]].

Locations that are cleared are indicated as such on the world map.
If the player re-visits the [[Location]] after the area has had time to reset, it may re-populated.

====[[Creation Club]]====
The '''Creation Club''' is a microtransaction system for content curated by Bethesda Game Studios for Fallout 4 and Skyrim.

====[[Creation Engine]]====
The '''Creation Engine''' is a collection of software and technologies behind Fallout 4.

====[[Creation Kit]]====
The [[Creation Kit]] will create [[Data File]]s for Fallout 4.

====Culling====
To cull, to pick out : in computer science, culling is a term used for objects which are prevented from rendering.

=D=
====Default Master Package====
The [[Default Master Package]] is a special package which gives content creators quick access to commonly used AI behaviors without needing to create custom [[Package]]s each time.

====[[Default Object]]====
''Default Objects'' are permanent [[Object]]s that the programs needs to access reliably.
Assign the appropriate game object to the default ''Use''.

====Depth Bias====
Depth bias enables coplanar geometry to not z-fight, offsetting decal geometry when depth-bias is on so that it appears in front of the geometry it is on top of.

Depth bias (on shadow lights) is a method to account for insufficient depth precision in shadowmaps.
Small depth bias can result in striping artifacts on the surface of objects, large depth bias can result in a lack of contact shadows.

====DMP====
Acronym shorthand for [[Default Master Package]].

=E=
====Edge====
Term used to describe the edge of a polygon.
Usually used in reference to [[Navmesh]]

====EOF====
When seen in the context of [[Papyrus Compiler Errors]] this means '''E'''vent '''O'''r '''F'''unction.
Generally, in computing this would mean ''End Of File''.

====[[Exterior Cell]]====
Exterior [[Cell]]s belong to a [[World Spaces|Worldspaces]], and are part of the worldspace's landscape, which is basically a grid that extends infinitely in all directions.
Each exterior cell is 4096 units by 4096 [[Unit]]s, or approximately 192x192ft or 58.5x58.5m.
Each vertex in an exterior [[Cell]] is 128 units (6ft) apart.

All exterior cells are automatically given a grid number that represents their [X,Y] position from the center of the world.
You will see this in the [[Render Window]] title as you select objects.

====External Emittance====
External emittance is when an object gets its emittance color from an external source.
External Emittance can be set to a specific light color, but can also inherit the sky color from a specific region of the world, allowing the emittance color to change to reflect time-of-day.

=F=
====[[Form]]====
Each of the [[Object]]s in the currently loaded [[Master File]]s and [[Plugin]]s, including those found in the [[Object Window]] as well as not found there.
For example, [[Actor]]s, [[Faction]]s, [[Package]]s, [[Cell]]s, [[Reference]]s, etc., are all [[Form]]s.

====Frustum====
In games, a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frustum Frustum] generally refers to the "view frustum" of the game camera.
Imagine the 3D space of the game-world, and a camera floating in that space.
The frustum of that camera, a cone-shaped field, would include all visible objects within that 3D space.
Frustums can also be used to describe the area which an [[NPC]] can see.

====FX====
Shorthand for "Effects", usually "Special Effects".
In the [[Creation Kit]], FX objects usually are particle systems such as fire, smoke or fog.

=G=
====Glow Fill====
Glow Fills are a kind of Special Effects object.
These are designed to simulate the glowing haze surrounding a source of light.
They are typically used to create ambiance in interiors as well as obscure visual tricks such as Sun Holes.
The object '''FXAmbBeamDust03''' is one example of a glow fill.

=I=
====[[ImageSpace]]====
An [[ImageSpace]] applies post-processing effects to the image.
Images space can control elements such as contrast, tinting, how bright objects must be for bloom lighting, the intensity of the sky/sun, depth of field and more.

====[[Interior Cell]]====
Interior [[Cell]]s are entered through a load [[Door]] linked to another [[Cell]] (interior or exterior).
When in an interior, the exterior world is no longer visible.
Each interior cell is essentially its own universe.

=K=
====[[Kit Piece]]====
A ''Kit Piece'' is the basic building block for level design.
These are premade level design kits which snap together in a seemless manner.

=L=
====Leaky Faucet Pacing====
Term used to describe a level design pacing problem.
Imagine the annoying persistence of a leaking faucet - it's easy to fall into a pattern of placing encounters into a level at very regular intervals.
This problem is usually addressed very simply by removing entire encounters, as many designers will tend towards too much combat in early iterations.
The issue can also be addressed by paying attention to relative intensity of encounters, and making sure there is an interesting progression rather than a linear one.

====LinkedRef====
Shorthand for "Linked Reference".
Refers to the target of a Linked Reference relationship, which can be set in the Reference Properties of most references, from the Linked Ref tab.
LinkedRefs may optionally have a keyword specified, which is helpful for references that need multiple associations/relationships.
This is commonly used in package building and scripting.

====LocRefType====
Shorthand for Location Reference Type.
This is a tag that can be applied to a reference, used by the [[Radiant Story]] system to populate variable with appropriate objects and locations.

=N=
====[[Navmesh]]====
[[Navmesh]] is an editor-created three-dimensional shape which exists for the purpose of providing AI with navigation details in 3D space.
The primary function of navmesh is simply to define where an actor can path, but navmesh can also include meta-data such as cover, ledges, water, and preferred routes.

=O=
====[[Object]]====
Can mean different things depending on context.
Usually refers to a [[Form]] in the [[Master File]] or added by a mod.
Often (but not always) either a [[Base Object]] or an [[Object Reference]].

When discussing [[Papyrus]] Scripting, an [[Object]] may refer to any of the [[Script Object]]s.
[[Script Object]]s correlate closely to [[Form]]s.

====[[Object Reference]]====
Generally referred to as a "Reference" or "Ref", an Object Reference is an instance of an [[Object]], placed in the world.

For example, there is only one '''NorRmSmWallSideExSm01''' [[Base Object]] - but you can place as many instances of that object as you like.
Each of these instances is a reference to the [[Base Object]]: so, each one is an [[Object Reference]].
References are explained in more depth on their own page: see [[Reference]].

====Orthographic View====
Sometimes shortened to "Ortho", orthographic view is a type of rendering/projection which displays a 3D space with no vanishing point.
This is extremely useful for a blueprint-type view where walls appear as straight lines, allowing for very precise placement of objects in a space.

Orthographic view can be toggled in the [[Creation Kit]] with the "'''0'''" (zero) hotkey.

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orthographic_projection More information is available on wikipedia.]

=P=
====Pisa Problem====
A problem in visual design.
The term refers to the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leaning_Tower_of_Pisa Leaning Tower of Pisa], which is remarkable specifically because remains standing although it doesn't look like it should remain standing.
Because videogame locations are not required to obey the laws of physics, a structure such as the Tower would simply look ill-conceived.

In general, the Pisa problem is a reminder to build spaces that look physically grounded and feasible.

====Prefab====
Prefab is a shorthand term used to refer to a collection of objects which can be easily copied to provide some complex functionality, such as multi-object traps, puzzles and creature ambushes.
These are provided in interior cells with the ''warehouse'' prefix.

Note that "prefab" is not a form type in the [[Creation Kit]].
It's just the term applied by the team to these kinds of pre-configured setups.

=Q=
====Quest Item====
The ''Quest Item'' check box is available on most base objects.
Objects marked as ''Quest Item'' cannot be dropped from the player's inventory, are not counted against encumbrance, and are not cleaned up when a [[Cell]] is reset (and are not cleared from reset inventories).
[[Actor]]s marked as quest items update more frequently.

=R=
====[[Reference]]====
Also known as "Ref"s, there are various types of [[Reference]] in the [[Creation Kit]].
Generally, though, when speaking about [[Reference]]s, people will mean [[Object Reference]]s.

A [[Reference]] is an instance of an [[Base Object]].
Usually, this means that the [[Object]] has been placed in the [[Render Window]], although references can also be created at runtime by scripts.
Each [[Base Object]] can have multiple [[Reference]]s.
The count of [[Reference]]s is displayed in the [[Object Window]].
If any of the properties of a [[Base Object]] are changed in the [[Object Window]], all its [[Reference]]s are also changed in-game.

However, references also hold some data that is unique to the reference.
The simplest example is the [[Reference]]'s position: it's unique for each reference, and is not stored with the [[Base Object]]'s data in the [[Object Window]].

If you {{key press|Double Mouse Click}} on an [[Object]] in the [[Render Window]], you will see its ''Reference Data''.
Different types of [[Object]]s have different ''Reference Data'' on their [[Reference]]s.
Different [[Reference]]s of the same [[Object]] can be set differently.

All [[Reference]]s are treated as [[ObjectReference Script]]s.
[[Reference]]s can also be cast to their specific subtype, so references of [[Actor]]s are '''''also''''' [[Actor Script]]s.


====[[Region]]====
Regions are a means of storing data about blocks of cells in [[World Spaces|Worldspaces]].
In ''Fallout 4'', they are primarily used as a way to assign [[Weather]] to exterior cells.

====Rendering====
Rendering is a computer science term for drawing an image on-screen.
On this wiki, it refers to any 3D objects which the Creation Engine is currently displaying.
It is important to note that a rendered image is not always visible.
This is why optimization is important: it helps content creators cut down on the amount of wasted rendering by ensuring that as few objects as possible are unnecessarily rendered.

For more information, check out the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rendering_(computer_graphics) Rendering article on wikipedia]

====Roombound====
A synonym for "Room Marker"

====Room-Hall-Room====
Refers to a pacing problem in level design.
It's very easy for a level to fall into a rut where the space simply feels like a series of random rooms connected by repetitive hallways.
This is usually the sign of a level in early stages of design.
Room-Hall-Room can be addressed by replacing bland hallways with more interesting traversal spaces, giving rooms a sense of cohesive purpose in the larger meaning of a level, and tuning encounter pacing.

====Room Marker====
A cube used to encompass references for the sake of manual occlusion.
Room Markers are linked to each other via portals, helping the Creation Engine make better decisions about what to cull and render.
[[Bethesda_Tutorial_Optimization|More information is available in this tutorial.]]

=S=
====Skybox====
A common game development term for an unreachable area created as a sort of diorama to create the illusion of an opening to sky.
In Skyrim these usually consist of ceiling holes where a patch of sky can be seen, and additional clutter such as foliage is often used to make the illusion more convincing.

=T=
====Triangle====
In the context of [[Navmesh]], a triangle or "tri" is a 3-sided polygon.

=U=
====Unit====
The [[Unit]] of measure used for the [[Creation Engine]].

====UI====
Common acronym for "User Interface".
Used interchangeably with GUI and HUD, or "Graphical User Interface", and "Heads-Up Display", respectively.

=V=
====Vertex====
A vertex, or "vert", is a point in 3D space.
When working with [[Navmesh]], vertices(plural) are used to create the corners of triangular polygons.

=Z=
====Z-Fighting====
In videogames, this term refers to a common visual bug where a surface flickers erratically because two objects are co-planar.
Z-Fighting in the [[Creation Kit]] is commonly caused by the accidental duplication of static objects, or placement of decal objects directly on a surface with no offset.

= Object Classes =
{| class="wikitable sortable"
|-
! Links
! Object Property
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Activate Text Override|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Activate Text Override}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Actor Value|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Actor Value}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Add Destruction Data|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Add Destruction Data}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Art Object|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Art Object}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:B|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:B}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Clac from components|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Clac from components}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Color|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Color}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Component Data|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Component Data}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Conditions|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Conditions}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Crafting Sound|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Crafting Sound}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Damage|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Damage}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Desc|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Desc}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Description|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Description}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Destructible Object|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Destructible Object}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Display Name|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Display Name}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Edit Destruction Data|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Edit Destruction Data}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Editor Color|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Editor Color}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Effect Shader|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Effect Shader}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Enchanting|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Enchanting}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Equip Type|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Equip Type}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Explosion|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Explosion}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Featured Item Message|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Featured Item Message}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Full Name|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Full Name}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:G|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:G}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Health|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Health}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Icon|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Icon}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:ID|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:ID}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:ImageSpace Modifier|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:ImageSpace Modifier}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Impact Data Set|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Impact Data Set}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Instance Naming|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Instance Naming}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Inventory Art|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Inventory Art}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Inventory Image|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Inventory Image}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:IS Mod|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:IS Mod}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Keywords|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Keywords}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Menu Art Object|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Menu Art Object}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Menu Image|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Menu Image}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Message Icon|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Message Icon}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Model|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Model}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Name|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Name}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Notes|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Notes}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Object Window Filter|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Object Window Filter}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Old Script|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Old Script}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:On Local Map|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:On Local Map}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Pack-In Use Only|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Pack-In Use Only}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Papyrus Fragment|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Papyrus Fragment}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Papyrus Script|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Papyrus Script}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Pickup Sound|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Pickup Sound}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Playable|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Playable}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Preview Transform|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Preview Transform}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Priority|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Priority}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Projectile|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Projectile}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Putdown Sound|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Putdown Sound}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:R|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:R}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Short Name|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Short Name}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Sound|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Sound}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Spells|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Spells}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:SWF|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:SWF}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Use Global|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Use Global}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Use Sound|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Use Sound}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Value|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Value}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:Weight|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:Weight}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:World Art|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:World Art}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:Property:World Model|Search]]
| {{Editor:Property:World Model}}
|-
| [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Template:Editor:PropertyObsolete|Search]]
| {{Editor:PropertyObsolete}}
|}


[[Category:Editor Reference]]