[[Fallout 4]] is the game which was created with the [[Creation Kit]] toolset.

=== Automatron ===
[[Automatron]] is the first add-on for [[Fallout 4]], released on March 22, 2016.
It requires the [[Player]] character to be level 15 to start playing.
:The mysterious Mechanist has unleashed a horde of evil robots into the Commonwealth, including the devious robobrain.
:Hunt them down and harvest their parts to build and mod your own custom robot companions.
:Choose from hundreds of mods; mixing limbs, armor, abilities, and weapons like the all-new lightning chain gun.
:Even customize their paint schemes and choose their voices!

=== Wasteland Workshop ===
[[Wasteland Workshop]] is the second add-on for [[Fallout 4]].
It was released on April 12, 2016.
:With the Wasteland Workshop, design and set cages to capture live creatures – from raiders to Deathclaws!
:Tame them or have them face off in battle, even against your fellow settlers.
:The Wasteland Workshop also includes a suite of new design options for your settlements like nixie tube lighting, letter kits, taxidermy and more!

=== Far Harbor ===
[[Far Harbor]] is the third add-on for [[Fallout 4]] and the second story add-on.
It was released on May 19th, 2016.
:A new case from Valentine’s Detective Agency leads you on a search for a young woman and a secret colony of synths.
:Travel off the coast of Maine to the mysterious island of Far Harbor, where higher levels of radiation have created a more feral world.
:Navigate through the growing conflict between the synths, the Children of Atom, and the local townspeople.
:Will you work towards bringing peace to Far Harbor, and at what cost?
:Far Harbor features the largest landmass for an add-on that we’ve ever created, filled with new faction quests, settlements, lethal creatures and dungeons.
:Become more powerful with new, higher-level armor and weapons. The choices are all yours.

=== Contraptions Workshop ===
[[Contraptions Workshop]] is the fourth add-on for [[Fallout 4]] and the second workshop add-on.
It was released on June 21, 2016.
:Machines that sort! Machines that build! Machines that combine!
:With Fallout 4 Contraptions, use conveyer belts, scaffolding kits, track kits, even logic gates to construct crazy and complex gadgets to improve your Wasteland settlements.
:The Contraptions Workshop also includes all-new features like elevators, greenhouse kits, warehouse kits, fireworks, armor racks and more!

=== Vault-Tec Workshop ===
[[Vault-Tec Workshop]] is the fifth add-on for [[Fallout 4]] and the third workshop add-on.
It was released on July 26th, 2016.
:Build a brighter future underground with the all-new Vault-Tec Workshop.
:Create a massive Vault and attract new Dwellers using pre-war industrial kits complete with retro-nostalgic furniture, lighting, and art.
:Even change and customize the look of your inhabitants with new barbershops and cosmetic surgery stations.
:And like every good Overseer, run Vault-Tec approved experiments on your Dwellers to learn what makes an ideal citizen.
:Vault-Tec has given you the tools, the rest is up to you!

=== Nuka-World ===
[[Nuka-World]] is the sixth add-on for [[Fallout 4]] and the third story add-on.
It was released on August 29, 2016.
:Take a trip to Nuka-World, a vast amusement park now a lawless city of Raiders.
:Explore an all-new region with an open wasteland and park zones like Safari Adventure, Dry Rock Gulch, Kiddie Kingdom and the Galactic Zone.
:Lead lethal gangs of Raiders and use them to conquer settlements, bending the Commonwealth to your will.
:Nuka-World features new quests, Raiders, weapons, creatures and more.
:Enjoy the ride!

=== High Resolution Texture Pack ===
The [[High Resolution Texture Pack]] is the seventh and final add-on for [[Fallout 4]].
It was released on February 6, 2017.
:Experience the wasteland like you've never seen it before with the Fallout 4 High-Resolution Texture Pack!
:From the blasted buildings of Lexington to the shores of Boston Harbor and beyond, every location is enhanced with ultra-deluxe detail.

== See Also ==
* [[Creation Kit]]
* [[Game Systems]]

=== Links ===
* https://fallout.fandom.com/wiki/Fallout_4_add-ons


[[Category:Game Systems]]