'''File Extension:''' <code>.ini</code>

The '''Initialization File''' format is an informal standard for storing application [[Configurations]].
These files are normally only loaded once when an application is starting up.
The configuration format is a <code>section</code> followed by multiple <code>property=value</code>.

==INI Custom==
Using a ''custom'' initialization file will preserve your changes after [[Fallout 4]] or the [[Creation Kit]] update.
This is useful becuase the ''default'' initialization files are overwritten by application updates.
The ''*Custom.ini'' suffixed files work by overriding values in their parent ''default'' initialization files.
Override values in the ''default'' files by only adding settings which are intended to be changed to the custom ini.
Both [[Fallout 4]] and the [[Creation Kit]] support ''custom'' initialization files.

For Fallout 4, create a new, empty file called [[Fallout4Custom.ini]] within the user directory.
<BR><code>\My Games\Fallout4\Fallout4Custom.ini</code>
<source lang="ini">
[Archive]
bInvalidateOlderFiles=1
sResourceDataDirsFinal=

[Papyrus]
bEnableLogging=1
bEnableTrace=1
bLoadDebugInformation=1
</source>

<BR>
For the Creation Kit, create a new, empty file called [[CreationKitCustom.ini]] within the game directory.
<BR><code>\steamapps\common\Fallout 4\CreationKitCustom.ini</code>
<source lang="ini">
[General]
bAllowMultipleEditors=1
bAllowMultipleMasterLoads=1
</source>


==INI Fragments==
Any active [[Data File]] can override values in [[Fallout4.ini]] by including a new <code>*.ini</code> file that shares the same name.
Including ''INI Fragments'' with Xbox or Playstation distributions is not supported.
<BR>
<code>\Fallout4\Data\MyWastelandMod.esp</code><BR>
<code>\Fallout4\Data\MyWastelandMod.ini</code>
<source lang="ini">
[Display]
fPipboyScreenEmitIntensityPA=1.25
fPipboyScreenDiffuseIntensityPA=0.15

[Pipboy]
bPipboyDisableFX=1

[Interface]
bShowTutorials=0
</source>

==Tooling==
*A standard [[Text Editor]] can create and edit initialization files.

== Notes ==
* The sections may be optional in some uses.

== See Also ==
*[[Configurations]]
*[[Fallout4.ini]]
*[[CreationKit.ini]]
*[[INI Settings (Papyrus)]]
*[[Game File]]s


[[Category:Editor Reference]]
[[Category:Game Files]]