Like in Fallout, we have a system in place to auto-magically replace a tagged user event name with the button art to which it's mapped.  Tag replacement is done by enclosing a user event name in square brackets '''[  ]'''.


== Tag Names ==
The following are the valid user event tags.  Next to each tag are the default controls that trigger the user event.  If a default control is not noted for a platform, then it does not exist on that platform.  E.g. "Forward" doesn't exist on the 360; it is a keyboard-only user event.  Also, controls on the 360 are identical to controls on a 360 controller plugged into the PC.

=== Gameplay ===
{|border="1" cellpadding="5" cellspacing="0" align="center"
|-
! style="background:#efefef;" | User Event
! style="background:#efefef;" | PC
! style="background:#efefef;" | Console
|-
| Forward
| W
|
|-
| Back
| S
|
|-
| Strafe Left
| A
|
|-
| Strafe Right
| D
|
|-
| Move
|
| Left stick
|-
| Look
|
| Right stick
|-
| Secondary Attack
| Right mouse button
| Left trigger
|-
| Primary Attack
| Left mouse button
| Right trigger
|-
| Melee
| T
| Right bumper
|-
| Activate
| E
| A button
|-
| Ready Weapon
| R
| X button
|-
| Pipboy
| Tab
| B button
|-
| Toggle POV
| G
| Back button
|-
| Zoom Out
| Mouse wheel down
|
|-
| Zoom In
| Mouse wheel up
|
|-
| Jump
| Spacebar
| Y button
|-
| Sprint
| L-Alt
| L3
|-
| VATS
| Z
| Left bumper
|-
| Sneak
| L-Ctrl
| R3
|-
| Pause
| Esc
| Start button
|-
|}

== Button Names ==
It's also possible to specify a particular button to show up.  Just keep in mind that if you specify a button directly, they'll show up as specified on all platforms.  E.g. if you have "[Xenon_Y]" in your text, it show up as (Y) on both PC and PS4, as well.

'''PC'''
* Just the letter / number / symbol on the key.  E.g. 'E', '[', 'Backspace', etc.

'''PC Controller/XB1'''
* Up
* Down
* Left
* Right
* Xenon_Start
* Xenon_Back
* Xenon_L3
* Xenon_R3
* Xenon_LB
* Xenon_RB
* Xenon_A
* Xenon_B
* Xenon_X
* Xenon_Y
* Xenon_LT
* Xenon_RT
* Xenon_LS
* Xenon_RS

'''PS4'''
* Up
* Down
* Left
* Right
* PSN_Start
* PSN_Back
* PSN_L3
* PSN_R3
* PSN_LB
* PSN_RB
* PSN_A
* PSN_B
* PSN_X
* PSN_Y
* PSN_LT
* PSN_RT
* PSN_LS
* PSN_RS

[[Category:User Interface]]
